README.md, before:

# MetalRender

**MetalRender** is a custom rendering backend for Minecraft.  
It uses **Apple Metal** to replace Sodium's backend rendering to offer faster frames on Mac!
MetalRender is inspired by Nvidium (the amazing mod for Nvidia GPUs that makes your game speedy) by Cortex

---

## Dependencies

| Dependency | Necessity | Where to get |
|---|---|---|
| Sodium | Necessary | [Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/mod/sodium) |
| Fabric | Necessary | [Fabric's official page](https://fabricmc.net/use/installer/) |
| Fabric API | Necessary | [Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/mod/fabric-api) |
| Ramen noodles | Necessary for survival | Find it yourself |
| Java JVM 21 | Necessary | [Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/au/java/technologies/downloads/#java21) |

## Features

- Uses **Metal** for rendering on macOS  
- Works with **Fabric Loader** and **Sodium**  
- Checks your hardware before starting  
- Turns off safely if Metal is not supported  

---

# Notes
- Only works on Metal (macOS)
- Will still load on other GPUs but won't offer any additional benefits or changes
- Shaders are not yet supported yet, they might be added in the future
- This should be compatible with most other mods, if it isn't please add a Issue
- MarioMastr helped me a ton by making a fork that addressed some MAJOR issues in native code! Thank them too!
  
---

# FAQs
- Why is this version diffrent from the Modrinth version?
  
  It is diffrent because I can't make a new version for every bug fix, performance buff or Library edit. It is inefficent so I would make a new version for Modrinth
  every stable release and major bug clearance (a group of bugs that I fixed) or a new feature etc etc. I cannot flood the Modrinth page with 20 new releases every 5
  days or so.

- When will Forge/Neoforge/Quilt be added?

  I probably won't make support for other loaders in the future but for now, only Fabric is supported because its the most lightweight and popular. 

- Can I run MetalRender on non-Apple Silicon hardware?

  Yes you can! But there just might be a crash, best case scenario it just doesn't offer any benefits. I'm working to add other optimisation features that don't need
  Apple Silicon to run so that even Intel/AMD/Nvidia people can enjoy MetalRender. You can expect that maybe next year, I'm busy with school and everything!

- Where can I put suggestions?

  There is a Suggestion tag on the Issues tab now! Please share your suggestions for MetalRender, I'm open to all suggestions and thanks for your help making
  MetalRender better for everyone!

- Does it work with xxx launcher?

  As long as your launcher doesn't mess with display libraries, GLFW or EGL (like Prism does), it would work. It has been verifyed to NOT work on Prism launcher. The
  Offical Mojang launcher works.
---

## Install

1. Download the latest release from [Releases](../../releases).  
2. Put the `.jar` file in your Minecraft `mods/` folder.  
3. Make sure you have:
   - Minecraft **1.21.8+**  
   - Fabric Loader **0.15+**  
   - Fabric API **0.131.0+**  

---

## Build (For Developers)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/webblepebbles/metalrender.git
cd metalrender
./gradlew build

Commit message:

Update README with MetalRender performance details
Clarify performance expectations and compatibility issues for MetalRender.

README.md, after:

# MetalRender

**MetalRender** is a custom rendering backend for Minecraft.  
It uses **Apple Metal** to replace Sodium's backend rendering to offer faster frames on Mac!
MetalRender is inspired by Nvidium (the amazing mod for Nvidia GPUs that makes your game speedy) by Cortex

---

## Dependencies

| Dependency | Necessity | Where to get |
|---|---|---|
| Sodium | Necessary | [Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/mod/sodium) |
| Fabric | Necessary | [Fabric's official page](https://fabricmc.net/use/installer/) |
| Fabric API | Necessary | [Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/mod/fabric-api) |
| Ramen noodles | Necessary for survival | Find it yourself |
| Java JVM 21 | Necessary | [Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/au/java/technologies/downloads/#java21) |

## Features

- Uses **Metal** for rendering on macOS  
- Works with **Fabric Loader** and **Sodium**  
- Checks your hardware before starting  
- Turns off safely if Metal is not supported  

---

# Notes
- Only works on Metal (macOS)
- Will still load on other GPUs but won't offer any additional benefits or changes
- Shaders are not yet supported yet, they might be added in the future
- This should be compatible with most other mods, if it isn't please add a Issue
- MarioMastr helped me a ton by making a fork that addressed some MAJOR issues in native code! Thank them too!
  
---

# FAQs
- Why is this version diffrent from the Modrinth version?
  
  It is diffrent because I can't make a new version for every bug fix, performance buff or Library edit. It is inefficent so I would make a new version for Modrinth
  every stable release and major bug clearance (a group of bugs that I fixed) or a new feature etc etc. I cannot flood the Modrinth page with 20 new releases every 5
  days or so.

- When will Forge/Neoforge/Quilt be added?

  I probably won't make support for other loaders in the future but for now, only Fabric is supported because its the most lightweight and popular. 

- Can I run MetalRender on non-Apple Silicon hardware?

  Yes you can! But there just might be a crash, best case scenario it just doesn't offer any benefits. I'm working to add other optimisation features that don't need
  Apple Silicon to run so that even Intel/AMD/Nvidia people can enjoy MetalRender. You can expect that maybe next year, I'm busy with school and everything!

- Where can I put suggestions?

  There is a Suggestion tag on the Issues tab now! Please share your suggestions for MetalRender, I'm open to all suggestions and thanks for your help making
  MetalRender better for everyone!

- Does it work with xxx launcher?

  As long as your launcher doesn't mess with display libraries, GLFW or EGL (like Prism does), it would work. It has been verifyed to NOT work on Prism launcher. The
  Offical Mojang launcher works.

- Why isn't MetalRender as powerful as Nvidium?

  Nvidium runs on Nvidia GPUs which are much much more powerful than Apple Silicon. Only since M3 chips have hardware mesh shaders been supported so we have to make
  do. Also, Nvidia GPUs can easily get 8GB of VRAM where as M-series chips have their VRAM and RAM combined.

- MetalRender is quite slow on my computer. How fast should it be?

  MetalRender can be slow because of high up-time. It should get you ~300 FPS regularly as tested with M3 Macbooks. If you are experincing lower frames, this might
  be from high up-time, low RAM or simply because your computer cannot run mesh shaders effectively (M3+ will fully support it, M1 and M2 have compute shaders which
  are much slower but are more traditional). 

  
---

## Install

1. Download the latest release from [Releases](../../releases).  
2. Put the `.jar` file in your Minecraft `mods/` folder.  
3. Make sure you have:
   - Minecraft **1.21.8+**  
   - Fabric Loader **0.15+**  
   - Fabric API **0.131.0+**  

---

## Build (For Developers)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/webblepebbles/metalrender.git
cd metalrender
./gradlew build
